Q: On my SuSE system, KDE su does not compile. I get an error that some Qt
   header files cannot be found.
A: Install the package qtcompat.

Q: Is KDE su safe?
A: No program is 100% safe. However, KDE su is not setuid root and it
   handles the password you enter with great care so it should be safe
   enough.

Q: How safe is password keeping?
A: Enabling password keeping is less secure that disabling it. However, the
   scheme kdesu uses to keep passwords prevents everyone (including you, the
   user) from accessing them. Please see the HTML documentation for a full
   description of this scheme.

Q: Can I execute tty applications with kdesu?
A: No. TTY application will probably never be supported. Use the Unix su for
   those.
   NOTE: As of version 0.94, tty _output_ _only_ is supported with the `-t'
   switch. This disables password keeping, though.

Q: What systems does KDE su support?
A: Tested are:
    * Linux 2.x (Redhat 6.x, Mandrake "Cooker", Debian potato, SuSE 6.1)
    * Solaris 7 (intel)
    * FreeBSD 3.2 (intel, w/ egcs 1.1.2)
   It will probably work on more systems but I cannot test that.

Q: Why doesn't it support every system that is out there.
A: KDE su needs to setup a pty/tty pair for communicating with `su'. This is
   because some `su' implementations refuse to read a password from stdin if 
   that is not a tty.  Setting up a pty/tty pair is not completely portable.

Q: A good debug tip?
A: If kdesu doesn't fire up your application, use the '-t' switch.
   This way, you'll get terminal output. Maybe there is something wrong with 
   the program you're trying to run.

Q: I always get the warning: "Terminal output not available on non-terminal".
A: Maybe you're not logged on from a terminal but probably you're using
   UNIX98 pty's without glibc 2.1 (Linux). The glibc 2.0 ttyname() function 
   incorrectly reports that UNIX98 slave pty's are no tty's.

Q: Why not use DCOP for the communications with the daemon?
A: KDE su needs one instance of the daemon per host, instead of per desktop
   session.
