Qt2 CMake port - a KDE Restoration Project again.

This is another step on the so called KDE Restoration project.
To make feasible future port of KDE 2 on modern systems, the whole Qt2 was
ported to modern Cmake.

Projects linking against Qt2 will be able to use:
find_package(Qt2) and target_link_libraries(Qt::qt2) straight forward.

This is a pure archeological computing work and to achieve the process the aim
was avoid change code itself much, except for the build system.
From the oriiginal Qt2 code,only configure and Makefile.in files was removed.

A second part of this project is prove that porting old software is feasible
and we do need start to take care of the history of code computing to not forget
the past.

If you want to compare the changes or want get original Qt code, go to the tag
Original_Qt2

This code uses same Qt2 licencing mode. Below are the original README

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Qt FREE EDITION 2.3.2 SOURCE CODE-stable DISTRIBUTION

This is the official release of the Qt Free Edition version 2.3.2.

You may use the Qt Free Edition for software development free of charge
only if you develop Free (non-proprietary) Software. The LICENSE.QPL file
explains what you may or may not do with the Qt Free Edition.

The Qt Free Edition may only be used on the X Window System.

If you are using Qt for developing commercial, proprietary, or other
software not covered by the terms listed in the LICENSE.QPL file, you
must have have a license for commercial Qt editions. Please see
http://www.trolltech.com/purchase.html for how to obtain this. Qt
commercial editions also support Microsoft Windows.  

The INSTALL file explains how to install Qt.

If you want to enable built-in GIF image reading support in Qt, run
configure with the "-gif" argument before compiling.

The Qt Free Edition is currently supported on Linux, Solaris, SunOS,
FreeBSD, OSF/1, Irix, BSD/OS, NetBSD, SCO, HP-UX and AIX. If you want
to port Qt to a new platform, please read the PORTING file.

The Qt Reference Documentation is available in HTML format in the
qt/doc/html directory. Start your favorite Web browser with the
doc/html/index.html file. The class reference doc. is also included in
Unix man format in the qt/doc/man directory.

If you are new to Qt it is a good idea to read the tutorial. It is located
in doc/html/tutorial.html. The tutorial directory contains the programs
used in the tutorial.

The example programs in the examples directory demonstrate some Qt
features. You can study these examples to get an overview of how Qt
programs can be written, or look at doc/html/examples.html with your
browser.

If you find any bugs, please see information in the reference
documentation about how to report it.

If you want to join the Qt user forum mailing list, send a message to
qt-interest-request@trolltech.com containing a single word "subscribe".  If
you want to be added to our announcements mailing list (no spam), send
a message to qt-announce-request@trolltech.com containing a single word
"subscribe".

If you are interested in commercial Qt licensing, please write
to sales@trolltech.com.  Other mail can be sent to info@trolltech.com.
